OK so now we're going to talk about one of the most important features of react.
We're just going to be state this is not that easy to understand.
So if you don't get it completely Don't worry.
It's one of those things we are going to be using quite a lot.
So you will have a lot of practice.
Don't worry.
So the state it's kind of an object that serves us just like a database so we can store values check
for events.
So pretty much through the state we can control how the component behaves.
So remember we talked about functional components and class based components.
Well every time we create a class for react we get a default state.
It's going to be empty.
Start of course and with the functional components since they are not classes we don't get an estate
and they are going to be stateless and you're going to use that you're going to hurt here.
The term alaap stateless.
But the class component it's not stateless.
So with the class component if the state changes for whatever reason the application is going to read
render the component let's say that we have a state right here.
We can create it create a state in a few seconds and something happens right here with the input for
example and we change the state reacting.
It's listening for these state change.
And whenever there is a change and the state is going to grab this render method and he's going to re
render whatever we have right here.
OK that is good.
So I'm if you don't know about constructor and super inside ESX you should be you should go back one
lecture.
So OK I'm going to start building this and then we're going to talk about what's happening first when
we create a component we need to call the constructor.
So I'm going to say constructor right here and I'm going to call the constructor since we want to bring
all the settings from react and the components we need to call the super.
And what we want to get.
It's going to be the props that every all the configuration from re-act some going to say prompts.
And again you're going to hear about prop's a lot.
So I started this class called the constructor and passed the the main argument which is going to be
the Propst get now to create a state inside re-act inside the constructor.
What we need to do is we need to call the this keyword and whenever we call this we use dot and then
state.
Now the state is going to be just an object.
OK so we do equal.
And then just curly braces.
Now since this is just an object we can just write all the information we want right here.
All the data we want just like a regular object.
So what I'm going to do I'm going to say keyboards and keyboards is going to be whatever the user types
right here.
So if the user types something begin to change the state and begin to put the values right here.
So if I type John right here re-act is going to ground the values and store the name John.
Inside the state and since the state is going to be changing it's going to re render every time it changes.
So that's good.
So the way to create a state it's just like this inside the constructor.
After the Super be called this dot state and so we have a stake.
Now if I just delete super and reload the application begin to get an error.
It says this is not allowed before Super.
So we need to use this super.
All right.
OK.
That is fine.
This is enough for the first part.
Let's go to the next section.
And of course we're going to talk a lot a lot about.
We're going to talk more about state.